Monday morning here about 11:40 and I
left Orange County about an hour ago and
I'm on my way to Joshua Tree National
Park over breakfast I was checking the
weather forecast and Orange County had a
forecast for some rain which is a little
unusual for August so I thought that
maybe there's some storms out in the
desert and sure enough when I check the
forecast it said there is likely to be
thunderstorms out in Joshua Tree so I
thought I make a trip out of it
I packed up my medium format camera my
large format camera in my panoramic
camera and I'm headed out with some
color films black and white film and
hoping I'm going to get some good storm
shots but see how it goes
I just got into Joshua Tree really a wet
ride coming in lots of rain lots of
flooding in a city of Joshua Tree but
just stop just a few minutes into the
park because it's really cool fog
covering the mountains and let's see
what I can do with that on black on my
film so I'm loading up now
so right now I'm doing a series of shots
planning on doing like kind of a
triptych so three pictures all right
next to each other and it'll be a joshua
tree smack-dab in the center of each
frame black and white
nice foggy background and all done on
medium format so I get kind of a just a
real perfect rectangle it's a ratio of
about four to five and just want to tell
you about the equipment I'm using here a
little bit this is a Mamiya RZ 67 camera
shoot some medium format 6 by 7 is the
format hence RZ 67 shooting black and
white film hillford delta 100 and i'm
doing what's called n plus 1 developing
that's where I'm going to expose the
photos a little bit darker and then
develop them a little bit longer that's
going to add some contrast some of you
film shooters out there may know that is
push processing it's pretty similar it's
not exactly the same but a pretty
similar process and I'm using the yellow
number 15 filter dark yellow and that's
giving me a little bit more contrast
because the dirt here is kind of a
yellowish tone and the fog is kind of a
bluish tone so I think it's going to
make the dirt stand out a little more
and the fog go a little bit darker
hopefully it'll work out but it's kind
of a tricky situation is pretty flat
lighting so I'm just having to work
pretty hard to bring in some contrast
I'm really pleased with how the overall
vibe of these photos turned out I'd say
my only regret for these photos is that
I didn't take more Joshua trees in fog
is a pretty unusual sight and truthfully
I wish I had fired off maybe two or
three more rolls of similar compositions
to really capture these amazing trees in
this unusual situation but other than
that I'm real happy with these photos
I tell you there are some conditions and
some subjects that are great for
black-and-white photography and some
subjects and conditions that aren't
these subjects these awesome Joshua
trees with their unique shape and this
fog bank behind me is fog engulfing all
these trees putting real great layers
going off into the background this stuff
this is just mmm it's just tasty
black-and-white photography so I'm glad
I came out I'm glad I brought my black
and white film and I'm glad the weather
is deciding to not rain on me right now
because I'm loving these fog layers all
right so it's one roll down just finish
the entire roll of black-and-white
medium format and every photo was the
same on that one or every composition
was the same it was a tree smack-dab in
the center wide open aperture fog fading
out the background into the distance so
going for all the same so I can see how
different trees look in that composition
and like I said earlier think it might
be a good triptych but I'm starting to
rain on me I need to get some lunch but
that's one roll down who knows how many
to go I still got a whole day left so
see what else we can get up in the
higher elevations of the park the storm
was breaking up which resulted in some
amazing cloud formations and some really
dramatic light I ended up making two six
by seventeen black-and-white
compositions that I'm just really
pleased with the textures were so rich
the light was very dramatic and the
clouds just created such an interesting
sky so overall I'm really glad I took
this trip it was worth getting out there
during the storm and I'm really glad I
could bring you along with me to see
just how gorgeous it was so thanks for
watching and I'll see you next time
you